\newpage
\section{\label{sec:processDesign}Designing Stream Processes}
The former section introduced the main conceptual elements of the
\streams library for creating data flow graphs. Such graphs are
contained within a {\em container}.  A container can be deployed by
compiling the container definition into a data flow graph (or {\em
  compute graph}) for the runtime environment which is to execute the
container.

Each of the basic elements for the process design (i.e. container
definition) directly correspond to an XML element that is used to
define a node in the data flow graph. The following Table
\ref{tab:xmlElements} lists the base elements provided.

\begin{table}[h!]
  \centering{
\renewcommand{\arraystretch}{1.25}
  \begin{tabular}{c|c} \hline
    \bf{Graph Element} & \bf{XML Element} \\ \hline \hline
    Stream & {\ttfamily stream} \\ \hline
    Process & {\ttfamily process} \\ \hline
    Queue  & {\ttfamily queue} \\ \hline
    Service & {\ttfamily service} \\ \hline
  \end{tabular}}
  \caption{\label{tab:xmlElements}The basic XML element used to define a compute graph within the \streams framework.}
\end{table}


%These basic elements are used to define stream processes that can be
%deployed and executed with the \streams runtime environment. The
%stream processes are essentially data flow graphs built from connected
%streams, processes and queues. Such graphs form the basis of a general
%family of message passing frameworks. The \streams framework provides
%a runtime implementation for the deployment and execution of a data
%flow graph.

The definition of stream processes is based on simple XML files that
define processes, streams and queues by XML elements that directly
correspond to the elements presented in Section
\ref{sec:abstraction}. Figure \ref{fig:xmlProcess} shows the scheme of
mapping the XML process definitions into data flow graphs of the
\streams runtime.



In addition there exists mappings for other runtime environments


\input{process-design-xml}

\input{process-design-variables}

%\input{process-design-distributed}